.TH HLBR 8 "2008, Jul 24" "HLBR-1.6"
.SH NAME
HLBR \- Hogwash Light BR
.SH SYNOPSIS
hlbr
.B -c
.I config-file
.B -r
.I rules-file
.B [-l
.I logs-directory
.B ] [-tndv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
HLBR is an IPS (Intrusion Prevention System) that can filter packets directly in the layer 2 of the OSI model (so the machine doesn't need even an IP address). Detection of malicious/anomalous traffic is done by rules based in signatures, and the user can add more rules. It is an efficient and versatile IPS, and it can even be used as bridge to honeypots and honeynets. Since it doesn't make use of the operating system's TCP/IP stack, it can be "invisible" to network access and attackers.
.sp 1
HLBR is based in Jason Larsen's Hogwash, available at
.I http://hogwash.sf.net
.SH "OPTIONS"
The options described here must be specified at the command line:
.TP
.B -t
Parse rules and exit.
.TP
.B -n
Process
.I n 
packets and exit.
.TP
.B -d
Enter Daemon Mode (Background Execution).
.TP
.B -v
Print version and exit.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/hlbr/hlbr.conf
default configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/hlbr/hlbr.rules
default rules file.
.TP
.I /etc/hlbr/empty.rules
empty rules file (for testing purposes).
.SH INCOMPATIBILITIES
All tests were done under Debian GNU/Linux (Sarge and Etch Stable + Lenny Testing) and Slackware (11 and 12). It works nicely. We recommend DEBIAN and Slackware!
.SH "AVAILABILITY"
.TP
The latest version of this program can be found at:
.I http://sourceforge.net/projects/hlbr
.SH "LICENSE"
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published 
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.SH "HLBR RULES"
To make or adjust HLBR rules, please see the README file (in Debian it can be found into
.I /usr/share/doc/hlbr/
).
.SH "AUTHORS"
Andre Bertelli Araujo (arkanoid) <bertelli.andre@gmail.com> (project leader)
.br
Artur Duque de Souza (morpheuz) <morpheuz@gmail.com>
.br
Gabriel E. Arellano (aretche) <arellanog@frcu.utn.edu.ar>
.br
Joao Eriberto Mota Filho (eriberto) <eriberto@eriberto.pro.br> (project leader)
.br
Pedro Arthur P. R. Duarte (pedroarthur) <pedroarthur.jedi@gmail.com>
.br
Rodrigo de Oliveira Vivi (vivijim) <rodrigo.vivi@gmail.com>
.SH "TEAM"
Please see:
.I http://hlbr.sourceforge.net/corner.html
