.TH "hogwash" "8" "0.5" "Ned Ludd" ""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
hogwash \- (The Inline Packet Scrubber)
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
hogwash [\fIoptions\fP]
.br 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Hogwash is an open source network intrusion detection and prevention 
system, capable  of performing  real\-time  traffic  analysis and packet 
logging on IP networks. It can perform protocol  analysis,  content  
searching/matching and  can  be  used  to  detect and prevent a variety of 
attacks and probes, such as buffer overflows, stealth port scans, 
CGI attacks, SMB probes, OS fingerprinting  attempts, and much more. 
Hogwash uses a flexible rules language to describe if traffic should 
passed or droped, as well as a detection engine that utilizes a modular 
plugin architecture.  Hogwash also has modular real\-time alerting capability,
incorporating  alerting  and logging plugins for syslog, a ASCII text files 
and MySql databases.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP 
\fBNote\fR
long options are not supported on all platforms.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP 
\fB \-c, \-\-config\fR
<Config File>
.TP 
\fB\-r, \-\-rules\fR
<Rules File>
.TP 
\fB\-t, \-\-test\fR
Parse Rules and Exit
.TP 
\fB\-n, \-\-number\fR
Process n packets and exit
.TP 
\fB\-l, \-\-log\fR
<Log Directory>
.TP 
\fB\-d, \-\-daemon\fR
Enter Daemon Mode (Background Execution)
.br 



.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI/etc/hogwash/stock.config\fP 
.br 
\fI/var/log/hogwash\fP 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBNONE\fP
Hogwash does not support include any support for ENVIROMENT variables.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run this program the standard way type:
.LP 
hogwash \-c /etc/hogwash/stock.config \-r /etc/hogwash/stock.rules \-l /var/log/hogwash
.LP 
Alternativly you can run it as:
.LP 
hogwash \-c /etc/hogwash/stock.config \-r /etc/hogwash/stock.rules \-l /var/log/hogwash \-d
.br 

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Hogwash was written by Jason Larson <anonpoet@users.sourceforge.net>
.br 
Ned Ludd <solar@linbsd.net>/<solar@gentoo.org> wrote this manpage
.br 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
syslog(2) mysql(1) dlopen(3)
